feat(code-assessment): add remove-deprecated-api expert skill (Java port) (#208)
adobe/skills: plugins/aem/cloud-service/skills/code-assessment/remove-deprecated-api/SKILL.md

  deprecated API usage ("api-regions-check", "Import-Package" violations), or proactively
  modernizing AEM projects before enforcement deadlines. Covers log4j migration, commons-lang /
  commons-collections v2→v3 upgrades, Guava removal, import replacements (org.eclipse.jetty,
  com.mongodb, ch.qos.logback, com.drew, etc.), Maven dependency cleanup, and removal of
  unmodifiable OSGi PID configurations.
  This skill is in beta. Verify all outputs before applying them to production projects.
metadata:
  status: beta
license: Apache-2.0
---

> **Beta Skill**: This skill is in beta and under active development.
> Results should be reviewed carefully before use in production.
> Report issues at https://github.com/adobe/skills/issues

# Remove Deprecated API — AEM as a Cloud Service

> This pattern is executed by the code-assessment runbook — follow [`../references/runbook.md`](../references/runbook.md) for the full flow (preflight → plan → apply → verify, run log). This skill supplies the detection + recipe the runbook applies.

## Overview

AEM as a Cloud Service enforces a list of deprecated and removed Java packages, Maven artifacts,

> and OSGi PID configurations via Cloud Manager's Build Analyzer Maven Plugin. Code that imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and OSGi PID configurations via the Build Analyzer Maven Plugin. Code that imports
```

This plugin is not Cloud Manager specific, for that I would remove this reference.

Author: yes, updating.

these packages, declares the removed dependencies, or ships the unmodifiable PIDs fails Cloud
Manager code-quality pipelines. This pattern scans the workspace for all three violation
categories and remediates them with direct LLM-applied edits using the replacement mappings in
`recipe.md`, followed by an AI-assisted build-error fix loop for anything that needs compilation
fixes after the import/dep changes.

## Classification — confirm this pattern applies

- A `*.java` file importing a package in the deprecated/removed API list (e.g. `org.apache.log4j`,
  `com.google.common`, `org.apache.commons.lang`, `org.eclipse.jetty`, `ch.qos.logback`, etc.)
- A `pom.xml` declaring a Maven dependency on a deprecated artifact (e.g. `logback`, `log4j`,
  `guava`, `mongo-java-driver`, `abdera`)

> - An OSGi config file (`.cfg`, `.cfg.json`, `.config`, `.xml`) declaring a PID that AEM CS

Reviewer 2: .xml is listed here as a detectable OSGi config form, but the analyzer's isOsgiConfig() doesn't match .xml, so sling:OsgiConfig .content.xml nodes are silently missed. Remove .xml from this list unless detection is added.

Author: fixed.
